NOTES ΟΝ THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
¹ OF TAOITUS.

errnn or nothing is known of the life ol Tacitus
except what he tells us himself, or what we may
gether from tho Epistles of his friend, the younger
Pliny. His proerwmec is a matter ol doubt. It is
commonly written Caius (on the authorityof Sidonius
Apollinaris), but itis given as Publius in the best
MS. of tho Annale. 'Phe name Oorrwliua suggests a
possible connection with the great patrician Gens
which was thus designated. But there was also a
plebeian house os the same name, and it must be
remembered that in the time of the Empire the
nomino gentilia had become widely diffused. With
regard to his perentage wa have at least a probable
conjecture to guide us. The elder Pliny was, be tells
us (Not. Hor. m 17), acquainted with one Cornelius
Tacitus, who was then a Procurator in Belgio Gaul,
and who heda son It has been supposed that this
Tacitus was the historian's father. 'Phe similarity of
name, the coincidence of dates, and the probability
that at some time of his life our author was familiar
with the neighbourhood of North-Baetem Gaul, in·
cline us to accept the conjecturo, which is further
supported by the fact that the circumstances of his
career seem tu imply an origin which was respectable
rather than dignified. A Procurator was generally
a person of Equestrian rank About the date of his
birth nothing can be certainly affirmed. It is indeed
approximately fixed by several expressions used by
the younger Pliny. That writer says (Epist. v11. 20)
that Tacitus and himself were “nearly equul in ege

b

 

